# TTP Full Stack Bootcamp
## Session 19: **Review JS Conditionals, more jQuery**

---

# Outline for today

- Review of Conditionals
- Live Coding Demo
- Team Popcorn Lab 1/2
- More jQuery
- Team Popcorn Lab 2/2
- Shareout
---

# Review

- How do we use object / method chaining in jQuery and jQueryUI?
- What is a 
- What is the general Data Flow in CS?

---

# Data Flow in CS

All of computing boils down to 3 basic steps:

1. Data comes in
2. Data is processed / transformed
3. Data goes out

---

# Primer on JS Data Types

Different kinds of data can be processed in different ways, some mutually exclusively. For example, consider the following. What are the outputs?
```
let sandwich = 'peanut butter';
console.log(sandwich + ' and jelly');
console.log(sandwich * 2);
console.log(sandwich / 2);
```

---

# JS Data Types

There are at least 8 data types in JS:

1. Number
2. String
3. Boolean
4. Object
5. Arrays* this is a psuedo data type
6. Function
7. undefined
8. null

---

# Booleans

Booleans are one of the simplest JS data types. They have 1 of 2 values: true or false; there is no middle value or ambiguity. One of their primary purposes is to 

---

# Conditionals

Conditionals allow you to ignore certain parts of code. Consider the following:
```
const bank_balance = 7000;
const item_price = 300;
if(bank_balance > item_price){
    // can buy it!
}else{
    // can't buy it!
}
```

---

# Booleans and boolean expressions 1/2

One way to use booleans is to save an explicit variable for it:
```
const development_mode = true;
```

---

# Booleans and boolean expressions 2/2

Another way is to use a **comparison operator** that will **evaluate** to a boolean:
```
if(today == 'Monday'){
	// drink coffee
}
```

---

# Comparison Operators (most of them)

1. == equal values
2. != not equal values
3. > greater than
4. < less than
5. >= greater than or equal to
6. <= less than or equal to

---

# JS Boolean Quirks

In JS, other datatypes can be used as boolean expressions. The following datatypes and values are treated the same as false:
1. false
2. undefined
3. null
4. 0 (the exact number 0)
5. '' (the exact string '')
**Anything else** is considered true

---

# Thumb Poll 1/6

Type into chat whether the following code blocks will print true or false.

---

# Thumb Poll 2/6
```
let value = undefined;
if(value){
    console.log(true);
}else{
    console.log(false);
}
```
---

# Thumb Poll 3/6
```
let value = 'hello world';
if(value){
    console.log(true);
}else{
    console.log(false);
}
```
---

# Thumb Poll 4/6
```
let value = 36 / 3;
if(value){
    console.log(true);
}else{
    console.log(false);
}
```
---

# Thumb Poll 5/6
```
let value = [];
if(value){
    console.log(true);
}else{
    console.log(false);
}
```
---

# Thumb Poll 6/6
```
let value = [];
if(value.length){
    console.log(true);
}else{
    console.log(false);
}
```
---

# Live Coding Demo
## What are some interesting ways we can use conditionals?

---

# Team Popcorn Labs 1/2

---

# Attendance

---

# Break

---

# jQuery References

Up to today, we have been creating references to HTML elements using jQuery syntax. `${'#header')` instructs jQuery to search through the existing HTML for an element with the `header` id attribute. `${'p'}` instructs jQuery to search through for all `p` tags.

What if we wanted to create an element from scratch?

---

# Creating HTML with jQuery 1/3

We can create a tag by simply putting the tag syntax (ie the tag name inbetween < and >) in the selector portion; `$('<span>')` will create a new span. We can treat that like any other variable: `let nametag = $('<span>').text('Barry Allen');`.

Once created, we can insert it into the DOM with any of the following methods: `.before()`, `.after()`, `.insert()`, `.append()`, `.prepend()`.

---

# Creating HTML with jQuery 2/3

For example:

```
const first_name = $('<span>').text('Peter');
const last_name = $('<span>').text('Parker');
$('#name_tag').append(first_name, last_name);
```

---

# Creating HTML with jQuery 3/3

Why is this important? By itself, it may not be that useful. However, when you need to create multiple elements (**array**), an undetermined number of elements (**for or while loop**), or in a generalized form (**function**), this will be the key to success.

---

# Live Coding Demo

---

# Team Popcorn Labs 2/2

---

# Shareout
