# TTP Full Stack Bootcamp
## Session 10: **inline styling**

---

# Outline for today

- Review
- Intro to inline styling
- Popcorn Lab Part 1
- Intro to positioning
- Popcorn Lab Part 2

---

# Review

- What are we doing for our final projects?
- What is an HTML tag attribute?
- Why is it useful?
- What is HTML nesting?
- What are organizational HTML tags?
- Why are they important?

---

# Reminder

**What does engaged communication look like:**

Answering a question  
Asking a relevant question  
Bringing up relevant idea  
Give non verbal feedback  
Respond in Slack or Google Classroom
"Can you go slower?"
"Can you give a different example?"
"Can you go faster?"

{.column}

**How it may happen:**

Speak up during class  
Message during class (to everyone or teaching staff)  
Slack  
Email

---

# Styling HTML elements (inline)

Virtually all tags have a special `style` attribute that allows us to use *CSS* to control its look and feel. You can change things like colors, sizes, borders, etc.

CSS definitions come in *key:value* pairs, just like JS objects. Here are some examples:

```
font-size: 32px;
color: lightblue;
font-weight: bold;
```

---

# The style Attribute

CSS can be applied to individual HTML elements using the `style` attribute. This is called `inline styles` and is usually reserved for rapid testing and spot fixes. Here is what it looks like:
```
<p style='margin-left: 20px; text-transform: uppercase'>
	Hello world!
</p>
```
What do you think this code will produce on the screen?

---

# W3 Schools Resources

W3 Schools continues to be our main resources for HTML and, now, CSS. Let's explore their CSS guides together:

[https://www.w3schools.com/css/default.asp](https://www.w3schools.com/css/default.asp)

Also, here is there HTML guide:

[https://www.w3schools.com/html/default.asp](https://www.w3schools.com/html/default.asp)

---

# One last note

In guides online, including W3 Schools, you may see CSS written in rule blocks like this:
```
p {
	margin-left: 20px;
	text-transform: uppercase
}
```
We'll go over this later this week. For now, just pay attention to the single definitions.

---

# Popcorn Lab part 1

**Task** You are going to create the front page of an imaginary newspaper website for the day that you were born. What was going on in the world? In the city you were born?

Look at other news websites like the NYT for visual inspiration. What are some of the design choices that they make that you can make as well? **For now ignore any layout designs.** We will be reviewing that later today!

Finally, feel free to have a mix of real stories and made up stories!

---

# Shareout

---

# Attendance

---

# Break

---

# Complex Layouts

Sometimes, we want to produce fairly complex budgets, such as for a superhero team roster (last week) or a newspaper (today). To do this, we need to understand `block`, `inline`, and `inline block` elements.

---

# block, inline, and inline-block Elements 1/2

- **block** elements cannot have other elements to the left or right of them. By default, they take up 100% of the width. We can specify width, height, margins, and paddings.
- **inline** elements can exist next to other inline elements. By default, they take up as much width as they need. We **cannot** specify width, height, margins, or paddings.
- **inline-block** elements are the best of both worlds: they can exist next to other inline elements **and** we can specify width, height, margins, and paddings.

---

# block, inline, and inline-block Elements 2/2

Every tag is by default either a block, inline, or inline-block element. We can override this default style with the `display` property:

```
<p style='display: block'>
	¡Hola Mundo!
</p>
```

---

# Complex Layouts How To

Combining the `display` CSS property with the `width` CSS property and nested HTML, we can achieve complicated layouts, like in a newspaper website.

---

# Live Coding Demo

---

# Popcorn Lab part 2

---

# Shareout

---

# Review
