# TTP Summer 2021 Externship
## Session 1: Introduction and First Steps

---

# Note

This slide deck will serve effectively as our syllabus. Refer back to it as needed!

---

# Goals for this externship
## To serve as an enjoyable environment to review and practice coding while learning real-world, hightly-sought tech skills.

To learn more about Computer Science and what it means to be developer in the real-world.

To PRACTICE skills you may or may not have already learned in school with input from real-world industry workers.

To prepare for a possible residency with a Tech Talent Pipeline that could lead to a PAID internship next summer.

To HAVE FUN!

---

# Topics Covered

1. Basic Coding Concepts
2. Coding as Part of a Team
3. Full-stack Web-application Development
4. Responsive Design
5. APIs, The Glue Between Layers
6. The OS Terminal
7. ReactJS
8. Databases 
9. Servers

---

# Example projects

A stock tracker website that allows users to play-buy stocks and track their net value over time.

{.column}

A restaurant discovery website that allows users to enter their location and food preferences / restrictions and receive a list of restaurants that meet those criteria.

---

# Class Norms
## What are the promises we make to each other as members of this bootcamp?

1. Ask questions when you don't understand
2. IMPORTANT! practice, practice - do as much of the labs as you can

---

# General Schedule

To respect everyone's time, we will always sharply begin at 1:00pm

We will expose you to the day's topics, then give a lab that allows you to PRACTICE what you learned. We'll then take a short break and show you how you can take what you learned further, PRACTICE some more and end no later than 5:00pm. 

Every Friday we will have a guest industry speaker to talk about real-life in tech and take questions.

Attendance will be taken at various points throughout the afternoon. 

---

# Project Schedule

The weeks of August 2nd and August 9th will be Industry Project weeks.

Teams of students will be paired with an industry volunteer who will manage an actual work project using some of the topics covered in the workshops.

---

# Open and Honest Communication, Always

The classroom works best when everyone feels comfortable to communicate honestly at all times.

Keeping your webcams helps foster an environment where this is possible. It is also magnificent practice for non verbal communication you'll need for interviews.

Along the way, we will be giving prices for friendly competitions that will excercize what you learned while havin fun!

---

# Engaged Communication

**What it may look like:**

Answering a question  
Asking a relevant question  
Bringing up relevant idea  
Give non verbal feedback  
Respond in Slack or Google Classroom
"Can you go slower?"
"Can you give a different example?"
"Can you go faster?"

{.column}

**How it may happen:**

Speak up during class  
Message during class (to everyone or teaching staff)  
Slack  
Email  
Anonymous Feedback Form
[https://airtable.com/shrz8k2HQ06hnuJcu](https://airtable.com/shrz8k2HQ06hnuJcu)

---

# Labs

Every day will have a relevant lab that you'll work on collaboratively, including assistance from the teaching staff as needed.

Assignments will be submitted as github links via a form: [https://airtable.com/shrdhk3TgUWZ6pFO5](https://airtable.com/shrdhk3TgUWZ6pFO5). (more on GitHub later)

---

# Thumb Poll

For each of the following statements, give a thumbs up if you agree or a thumbs down if you disagree:

1. I've never coded before
2. Game of Thrones is overrated
3. The correct way to make a bowl of cereal is milk first
4. GitHub is the place where you'll submit all labs
5. AI is the best branch of CS

---

# Pause for Questions

---

# Reversal!
## Each student come up with one question for anyone on the teaching staff. Ask it via video or chat.

Some examples of questions:
- *What's it like founding your own social good tech startup?*
- *What's your favorite project that you've ever worked on?*
- *Where did you grow up?*
- *Who is your favorite Avenger?*

---

# Pre-assessment

Click on the HackerRank Assessment invitation you got in you email.

You'll have one hour to fill it out.

---

# Introduction to Staff

---

# Introduction to your team mates
## Name Tag
- One person at a time calls out someone else's name (from looking at the Zoom participant list)

- The person whose name is called says "Hi" and their class (freshman, sophomore, etc)

- Keep going until everyone has been "tagged"

---

# Git & GitHub

---

# What is it?

**a version control system**

git creates an exhaustive edit history for each file in your project, allowing you to retain different versions, revert to older versions, and much more.

**a code collaboration system**

git creates local copies of the project on your machine and intelligently sends your changes to a master repository or storehouse of code. you can also automagically receive code changes from other teammates in a (usually) frictionless way.

---

# Why should I learn it?

- Ubiquitous in the world, from startup to enterprise level
- Github often acts as your portfolio
- Easiest way to collaborate on large projects
- Can rollback and track changes

---