# TTP Full Stack Bootcamp
## Session 2: Review of Coding Concepts I

---

# Outline for today

- Review Class Norms and Git installation
- Data Flow
- Variables
- Syntax

---

# Review

- Everyone should have a GitHub personal account
- Everyone should've filled out the Equipment Survey
- Everyone should've completed the Baseline HackerRank
- Class Norms
  - Ask questions, don't be shy
  - Practice topics introduce by doing the labs

---

# General Notes

---

# Why Review the Basics?

- You're going to learn many programming languages

- Each with new terms and concepts
- These will be very overwhelming if you don't have the basics of how computer science works down pat
- Plus you'll learn languages much faster if you have the basics solid
- Tech stacks change often. The basics don't.

---

# What Are the Fundamentals?

- The Flow of Data
- Syntax
- Variables
- Control Structures
- Functions

---

# Data Flow
## Programming is all about the flow of data into, inside and out of a program

- Programs essentially combine or transform input data with their own internal data to produce resulting data or to execute some helpful task for someone 
- Data is usually represented by data types; words, numbers and other more complex data. They can be put into 3 groups:
  - **strings** - words, sentences, etc
  - **numerical data** - numbers for calculations or algorithms
  - **other** - like Boolean or Null values

---
# More on Data Flow
## Input

- **Input:** Data can be input using the keyboard, touch screen, text editor, redirected from another program, and many other ways. For Example: when you login to anything, you're providing your username and password as input. 

---
# More on Data Flow
## Processing

- **Data Processing:** Once any program or app has taken it's input, it can do anything with it. For Example: your password may be encrypted, then sent together with your username to a server for authentication

---
# More on Data Flow
## Output

- **Output:** Programs will output data - to the screen, speakers, a database, etc.
For Example: the output of your login could be to tell you that your username and password doesn't match. 

---
# More on Data Flow

...

---
# Variables
## Variables are names given to a piece of data

Why name your data?
- Once you've named some data, you can refer to that data again as many times as you want in the rest of the program
- You don't always know what your data is beforehand
- You may need to hold temporary data while processing
- You don't want the program to forget what the data means when you need it later


---
# More on Variables
highlight variables relations to input/processing/output and use below when on DRY

Imagine you have this calculation to do 10 places in your code:

  ```javascript
  1+2+1
  1+2+1
  1+2+1
  1+2+1
  1+2+1
  ```
If the calculation changes, you have to change it 10 times

---
# More on Variables

Now, if you name this calculation with a variable name

  ```javascript
  math = 1+2+1
  ```

And you use the variable instead 10 times in the code
  ```javascript
  answer = math
  ```

Now if the calculation changes, you you only need to change it 1 time
  ```javascript
  math = 1+7+1
  ```
---
# Declaring and Initializing Variables

In JavaScript you usually DECLARE variables and INITIALIZE them at the same time 

  ```javascript
  let math = 1+2+1
  ```

---
# Thumb Poll

For each of the following variables, give a thumbs up if you if you think they are good names:

1. temp
2. myWeight
3. num1
4. user_first_name
5. my-array
6. count

---
# Setting Variables

Most of the time<sup>*</sup>, you can change the value of the variable at any time

  ```javascript
  math = 1+2+1
  ```

---
# Using Variables

**Here's the most important part:** you can use your variables in any other place in your code and it's like you typed in the value referred to by the variable:

If the 'math' variable is set this way:
  ```javascript
  math = 1+2+1
  ```

Than later in your code if you use **math**, the computer will _replace_ "math" with the number 4.

So typeing '10 + **math**' is the same as typing '10 + 4'.

---
# Mini-lab on Variables
## Your Browser's Developer Console

The developer console is a tool which lets you program in JavaScript right in your browser. (It does other things, too, but this is all that really matters for right now.)

---
# The Developers Console

The following are instructions for how to open the developer console on various different browsers:
- **Chrome** To open the developer console window on Chrome, use the keyboard shortcut **Ctrl/Shift/J** (on Windows) or **Cmd/Option/J** (on Mac).

- **Safari** To open the console on Safari, you will first need to turn on the Develop menu. To do this, open the Safari menu in the Mac menu bar, then select **Preferences**. 
  - Once in the Preferences dialog, navigate to the **Advanced** tab, then check the "Show Develop menu in the menu bar" box.
  - Once the Develop menu has been enabled, you can go to the **Develop** menu in the menu bar and then select the "Show JavaScript Console" option.

---

# Live Coding Demo

---

# Lab 1

---
# Syntax
## Syntax is the ORDER that you're ALLOWED to put Variables and keywords in your program

- Syntax is similar in the English language - verbs, nouns and punctuation have to be in the right order in sentence, otherwise it might not be understood
- If your Syntax is wrong, your program might run things in the wrong order or simply not work at all
>> "Syntax is probably the toughest hurdle for new programmers to overcome"
-- Java Developer

---
# More on Syntax

Documentation of any computer technologies will often dictate what syntax or signature should be used. 

```javascript
function name(parameter1, parameter2, parameter3) {
  // code to be executed
}
```
The above syntax says that when defining a function:
- the keyword ```function``` must com first
- then the ```name``` of the function
- then it's ```parameters``` in parenthesis ```()```
- finally the code of the function in brackets ```{}```

---
# More on Syntax
## Syntax is the difference between coding languages

Where in one language you'll use brackets, 
another may use braces and in another parenthesis

---
# Control Structures
## Rules and instructions for how to manipulate data under different conditions or until a certain condition is met

Real-life parallels:
- the instructions given to a bar tender not to let anyone in under 21 years of age
- the instructions for a baker to fold and roll dough exactly 4 times
- the instructions for a car owner to fill their tires with air only up to a certain PSI

---
#PRIMM

A good way to build a solid internal understanding of coding is to practice the PRIMM method:

**_Predict_** - what do you think the code will do?
**_Run_** - what does the computer do?
**_Investigate_** - if there is a difference between, why is that?
**_Modify_** - now can you change the code to extend it?
**_Make_** - now can you write code from scratch?

---
#Review

---