# TTP Full Stack Bootcamp
## Session 3: Review of Coding Concepts II

---

# Outline for today

- Review Data Flow, Variables, Control Structures
- Control Structures
- Functions

---

# Review

- What is Data Flow?
- Name 2 kinds of data?
- What is syntax?

---
# Control Structures
## **Control Structures** are rules and instructions for how to manipulate data under different conditions or until a certain condition is met

Control Structures simply tell the computer which lines of code to execute next. 

Sometimes control structures are called **flow of control** (different from **flow of data**).

Control Structures give your code the ability to make decisions.

---
# More on Control Structures
## There are basically 3 types of Control Structures 

1. **Sequential** the computer will execute code one line at a time from top to bottom, left to right like reading a book
2. **Conditional** the computer will execute code depending on a condition being true or false
3. **Iterative** the computer will repeat some code until a condition is either true or false

---
# More on _Sequential_ Control Structures

**_Sequential_** This is the normal path the computer takes: it will execute code one line at a time from top to bottom. Simple.
```javascript
let priceOfCandy = 3
let moneyInMyPocket = 4
let howMuchCandy = Math.floor( moneyInMyPocket / priceOfCandy )

console.log(`I can only buy ${howMuchCandy} pieces of candy!`)
```

---
# More on _Conditional_ Control Structures

**_Conditional_** - Logic that has _conditions_ telling the computer to _branch_ in one direction or another.

This can be a single branch using an _if_ statement:
```javascript
if ( condition ) {
  // execute the code in here if the condition is true
}
```
---
# More on _Conditional_ Control Structures

This can be a double branch using _if_ and _else_:
```javascript
if ( condition ) {
  // execute the code in here if the condition is true
} else {
  // execute this code if condition is false
}
```
---
# More on _Conditional_ Control Structures

Or it can have **_as many_** branches as you like:
```javascript
if ( condition 1 ) 
{ 
  // execute the code in here if the condition 1 is true
} else if ( condition 2 ) {
  // execute this code if condition 1 is false AND condition 2 is true
} 
  ..
  ..
  else if ( condition N ) {
    // run this code if every condition before here has been false AND condition N is true
}

```

---
# More...
## **_Iterative_** logic uses _loops_ to repeat some code a number of times

**Loops** generally take two forms:

- **_for_** loops:
```
for i = x until i = y, repeat this code
```
- or **_while_** loops:
```
repeat this code while condition X is true
```

---
# More on for loops

Syntax for a _for_ loop in javascript:
```javascript
for ( initialization; condition; change ) {
    // code block to execute
}
```
- **initialization** will run before the loop. It's usually used to initialize a count variable
- **condition** if the condition is true, the loop will start again
- **change** executed after every time the loop code is run. Usually used to increment the count variable.
---
# PRIMM the For Loops

```javascript
for ( i=0; i<10; i++) { console.log("Hello") }
```
```javascript
for ( i=0; i<=10; i+2) { console.log(i) }
```
```javascript
for ( i=0; ; ) { 
    i = i + 10;
    console.log(`i is ${i}`) 
}
```

---
# Attendance

---
# Lab 1

---
# Functions
## **_Functions_** are blocks of code that perform a particular task

- To _invoke_ or _call_ a function is to use it
- To _define_ a function is to create your own function
- There are ready-built functions in most languages
- And there are functions that come wit _libraries_ you can include in your code (more on libraries later)

---
# More on CREATING your own functions

Syntax for a writing _functions_ in javascript:
```javascript
function name ( parameter1, paramater2, ..., parameterN ) {
    // code block to execute
}
```
- **function** is a keyword, needed to create functions in this form
- **name** is the name you give your function
- **parameterX** these are the _data_ you want to send your function as its _input_. The names you use here become _local_ variables inside the function.

---
# More on CREATING Functions

- In addition to _Functions_ taking _input_ through its _parameters_ or _arguments_, functions can _return_ _output_:
```
function addTwoNumbers ( number1, number2 ) {
    return number1 + number2;
}

console.log( addTwoNumbers(4,8) );
```
- Note that ```console.log()``` is printing the _output_ of the function. It's the same as if we'd written ```console.log( 4 + 8 );```

---
# Review

---