# TTP Full Stack Bootcamp
## Session 17: **jQueryUI and final project teams**

---

# Outline for today

- Intro to jQueryUI and libraries
- Teamwork in CS - Pair Programming
- First Draft of Final Project Teams!
- Team Icebreaker
- Team Popcorn Labs

---

# Review

- What is the DOM? Why is it relevant to us?
- What is 'traversing'? Why should we learn it?
- What are some examples of jQuery traversal methods?
- What is the Divide and Conquer method to teamwork in CS?
- What are some of the core characteristics of Divide and Conquer?

---

# jQuery Libraries

The core jQuery library is **old**. It was originally created in 2006, with several regular revisions and continues to be used today.

In the tech world, sometimes old is **gold**. jQuery has a *mature* codebase, meaning its strengths and weaknesses are well understood, its code is well tested, and it has lots of extensions / plugins / other libraries built on top of it. jQueryUI is one such library!

---

# jQueryUI

jQuery originally included a few ways to animate and interact with elements on the screen. The need soon came to focus on these separately and so a new library was started: jQueryUI. This is a collection of user interface plugins that make 

---

# How to use it

You can use jQueryUI just like Materialize CSS and jQuery by including a link to the CDN in your `<head></head>`.

**note**: since jQueryUI is built on top of jQuery, you have to include jQuery **before** jQueryUI. This is also true of Materialize CSS.

---

# Live Coding Demo

---

# jQuery with Materialize CSS

Remember, Materialize CSS has some advanced components based on Javascript.

They can be accessed either by *vanilla JS* or by jQuery.

---

# Live Coding Demo

---

# Teamwork in CS - Pair Programming 1/2

Another strategy when working in an engineering team is called pair programming. This is when 2 coders work, literally, on the same lines of code at the same time.

*However*, one is active (sometimes called the *driver*) and one is support (sometimes called the *navigator*). Also, they switch roles often.

---

# Teamwork in CS - Pair Programming 2/2

One disadvantage of pair programming is that it takes longer to produce code. This is because you are taking 2 people to do what other strategies use 1 person for.

The major advantage is that the code produced by the pair is often **stronger** and **less buggy**, meaning that you will probably need less time down the line to fix or upgrade the code.

In certain environments, this is also a good way for more experienced coders to actively mentor less experienced coders.

---

# Pair Programming Demo

---

# Attendance

---

# Break

---

# Team Icebreaker

We have your final project teams! But know that they are a first draft. They can be switched around for any reason. For now, let's try to get to know each other!

In your breakout rooms, you'll have a set amount of time to find **10 things in common**. Try not to go for obvious things like you all go to MEC. Dig deep!

We'll come back and share a little of our findings.

---

# Team Popcorn Labs 1/2

Your task is today is to build an online version of an interactive kids' story book. Often times, kids' story books have different kinds of activities: buildings could pop up, characters can slide across the page, animals can make noises. How can we use all of our tech stack to bring these kinds of interactions to the web? Remember, our tech stack is:

- Materialize CSS
- jQuery
- jQueryUI

---

# Team Popcorn Labs 2/2

We will **also** be using this lab to practice 1 of the 2 teamwork strategies we've learned about so far. As your team is deciding on the story line, also choose one of the team strategies to use.

---

# Review
