# TTP Full Stack Bootcamp
## Session 8: **JS Object Chaining, HTML, and Independent Learning Strategies**

---

# Outline for today

- JS Objects and Method Chaining
- JS Objects Labs
- HTML
- Independent Learning Strategies
- HTML Lab

---

# JS Objects and Method Chaining

One last important code pattern that we'll see is called *Method Chaining*.

Often, when working with objects, we will want to call several methods in a row, since each method is usually a single, small data processing operation.

---

# Given this object, how do we roll 3 times?
```
const dice = {
	sum: 0,
	roll: function(){
    let roll = Math.ceil(Math.random() * 6);
    console.log(`rolled a ${roll}`)
		this.sum += roll;
		return this;
	}
}
```

---

# One Method

```
let first_roll = dice.roll();
let second_roll = first_roll.roll();
let third_roll = second_roll.roll();
console.log(`Total: ${third_roll.sum}`);
```
---

# Alternate Method
```
let three_rolls = dice.roll().roll().roll();
console.log(`Total: ${three_rolls.sum}`);
```

Since the `roll()` method returns `this`, you can *chain* the methods together without having intermediate variables.

---

# Live Coding Demo

Using [W3 Schools String Methods](https://www.w3schools.com/js/js_string_methods.asp)

---

# Lab 7a

---

# Lab Review

---

# Lab 7b

---

# Lab Review

---

# Attendance

---

# Break

---

# HTML
## The backbone of web technologies

---

# What does it do?

HTML organizes information in a tree-like structure so that web browsers can display it intelligently. It provides minimal aesthetics and interactivity, instead relying on JS and CSS to produce what we expect from a modern website.

HTML is not a fully fledged programming language, yet is often used alongside them.

**Still**, you need to learn its syntax.

---

# HTML Syntax 1/2

The core of HTML is the **element**, sometimes called **tag**. They look like this:

`<bold>Beagles are the best breed of dog!</bold>`  
`<button>send</button>`

Here, the `<bold>` and `<button>` are opening tags with their corresponding closing `</bold>` and `</button>` tags. Tags apply certain characteristics to everything between their open and closing tags. 

---

# HTML Syntax 2/2

A tag's contents are called its children.

Nearly all tags have opening and closing tags, but some have a special, combined syntax. eg: `<br />`

---

# Nesting and Tree Structure

There are no restrictions to what a tag's children can be. They can be text, nothing, or other tags.

They are processed in a *stack like* fashion, where all of a tag's children *must* have their closing tags appear before its own closing tag appears.

---

# Valid Example

```
<div>
  <p>
    Dear Mr. Potter,
  </p>
  <p>
    Congratulations! You are wizard.
  </p>
  <p>Prof. Dumbledore</p>
</div>
```

---

# Thumb Poll 1/2 Is this valid HTML?
```
<article>
  <div>
    <p>
      I took a deep breath and listened to the old brag of my heart: I am, I am, I am.
    </div>
  </p>
</article>
```

---

# Thumb Poll 2/2 What about this?
```
<table>
  <tr>
    <td>
      Average
    </td>
    <td>
      32,450
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>
```

---

# HTML reference

There are over 100 different HTML tags, which is beyond our scope to go through exhaustively. Here is the complete list:

[https://www.w3schools.com/tags/default.asp](https://www.w3schools.com/tags/default.asp)

In practice, you'll only be using a few dozen most commonly. Here is a cheat sheet for the most commonly used ones:

[https://websitesetup.org/wp-content/uploads/2019/08/HTML-CHEAT-SHEET.png](https://websitesetup.org/wp-content/uploads/2019/08/HTML-CHEAT-SHEET.png)

---

# Pause for Questions

---

# Why is HTML important to us?

- It's the backbone of the web. Every website is built on top of it. Go see!

---

# Lab 7c

---

# Lab Showcase!

---

# Review
