# TTP Full Stack Bootcamp
## Session 11: CSS Classes, IDs & Selectors

---
# Outline for today

- Review
- CSS IDs
- CSS Classes
- CSS Selectors

---
# Review - Vocabulary

* HTML **element** - everything from the start tag to the end tag
- HTML **tag** - keyword inside angle brackets (<>) telling the browser what **TYPE** of ```element``` to draw
* HTML **attributes** - provide additional information about an element
- CSS Style **properties** - are provided to the ```style``` attribute and show the browser **HOW** to draw an ```element```

---
# More Review

- What are the three possible values for the ```display``` style property?
- What's the difference between the three?

---
# A New Attribute: ```id```

The HTML ```id``` attribute gives a unique id to any HTML element.

You cannot have more than one element with the same ```id```.

An element can be _selected_ by using a hashtag (#)

### Why?

With the ```id``` attribute, you can reference your element from someplace else like a separate CSS file or some JavaScript code.

---
# Another New Attribute: ```class```

The HTML ```class``` attribute assignes one or more classnames to any HTML element.

Multiple elements can have the same class(es).

_Multiple_ elements can be _selected_ by using a dot (.)

### Why?

With the ```class``` attribute, you can reference many elements at the same time from someplace else. 

---
# 3 Ways to Use CSS

CSS can be added to HTML documents in 3 ways:
- **Inline** - by using the ```style``` attribute inside HTML elements (the way we've been doing in class)
```html
<h1 style="display: inline">
```
* **Internal** - by using a ```<style>``` element in the ```<head>``` element (this is how w3schools mostly does it)
```html
<head>
  <style> 
    #juan {display: inline;} 
  </style>
</head>
```
- **External** - by using a ```<link>``` element to link to an external CSS file. This is the most common way and we'll be using this way from now on.
```css
#juan { 
  display: inline;
}
```

---
# Live Coding Demo

---
# Using an External CSS file (a _stylesheet_)

You can name your stylesheet anything you want - many use ```style.css```

You have to include a ```<link>``` element in your ```<head>``` section to tell the browser **WHICH** file is your CSS stylesheet like so:
```html
<head>
  ...
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="styles.css">
</head>
```
---
# Using an External CSS file (a _stylesheet_)

**_Inside_** your stylesheet your style properties are grouped by their _selector_ and a set of braces ({}) like so:

```css
#juan { 
  display: inline;
  color: pink;
  text-align: center;
}
```
The above code will set the display, color and text-align properties to every element specified by the _selector_ "#juan".

---
# CSS ```selectors```

The CSS ```selectors``` are patterns used to select the element(s) you want to style.

Some of the most common ways to use selectors:
- just use any tag - the selector will select apply the group of style properties in braces ({}) to every one of those tags:
```css
img {
  height: 100px;
}
```

---
# CSS Selectors Resources

w3schools has a list of many patterns you can use in selectors: [https://www.w3schools.com/cssref/css_selectors.asp](https://www.w3schools.com/cssref/css_selectors.asp)

W3schools has a handy CSS Selector Tester to help understand selectors: [https://www.w3schools.com/cssref/trysel.asp](https://www.w3schools.com/cssref/trysel.asp)