# TTP Full Stack Bootcamp
## Session 21: **JS Object review, new mini jQuery project**

---

# Outline for today

- Review of JS Objects
- Academic Integrity
- Forking
- Intro to new mini project
- Pair Programming Lab
- Divide and Conquer Lab

---

# Review

- Why are loops important?
- Why are arrays important?
- How do we use jQuery to create new HTML elements?
- How do we then add those to the DOM?

---

# Review of JS Objects

---

# Academic Integrity

Although our bootcamp may feel different in certain ways than a traditional class you may take at Medgar, we still abide by higher education academic standards, including academic integrity.

The instruction staff comes from a long history of higher education and some students are receiving course credit for this bootcamp; as such, academic integrity is more important for us.

---

# MEC's Policy

Here is the official policy for Medgar Evers:

[https://mec.catalog.cuny.edu/academic-requirements-regulations-policies/academic-integrity-policy](https://mec.catalog.cuny.edu/academic-requirements-regulations-policies/academic-integrity-policy)

---

# Code Attribution

Often, software engineers will use libraries and modules from other engineers. It is best practice to place attributions in comments whenever that happens. Take for example the Materialize CSS file:

[https://cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/materialize/1.0.0/css/materialize.css](https://cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/materialize/1.0.0/css/materialize.css)

So let's adopt that industry practice. Let's comment code with our names to show who was the main contributor for that section of code.

---

# Primmer on Comments

Here are the different ways you can leave comments in our tech stack.

```
// JS only
/* JS and CSS */
<!-- HTML -->
```

---

# Forking

---

# The Need for Version Control

When working on large, long, complicated coding projects with several engineers, it can become cumbersome to work on the same files together. Soon, we need to not only to be able to rollback or split off individual files, but also to rollback or split off **several** files.

This can happen when some team members need to test one particular feature (part) or want to temporarily test a potentially new feature.

This is called **version control** and is often achieved with **git**

---

# Forking

A specific kind of version control is called **forking**. This will create an exact copy of the entire project at one particular point in time, so that some team members can edit without fear of breaking the main / master copy of code.

In a full work environment, there are ways to then merge forks back into main / master automatically. However, that workflow is beyond the scope of our bootcamp so we'll merge code back in manually.

On repl.it, forking a project is easy. We'll demo that shortly.

---

# New jQuery Mini Project!

---

#  Introduction

We have been impressed and proud of the progress y'all have made on our digital kids interactive books. We want to launch one more mini project before the final projects that give you more practice with jQuery. So we will be building an interactive letter writing tutor!

---

# Live Coding Demo

---

# Lab 1/2

In your new teams, begin filling out the rest of the letter animations. Since this project is new and relatively complex, use this first lab to do pair programming.

**Note**: pair programming is just the name; it doesn't have to be exactly 2 people. Whatever the size of your team is, designate 1 person to be the driver (ie the person who types in code) and have the rest of the students navigate (ie help figure out the code, the math, etc). Be sure to rotate who the driver is **every 15 minutes**.

---

# Attendance

---

# Break

---

# Lab 2/2

Continue to work on completing the letter animations. If your team feels that everyone has a good grasp on how the code works, consider switching over to the Divide and Conquer method. If your team stil feels a little shaky, continue with Pair Programming until everyone is comfortable.

---

# Closing Review
