# TTP Summer 2021 Externship
## Orientation

---

# Goals for this Externship

To learn more about Computer Science and what it means to be developer in the real-world.

To PRACTICE skills you may've already learned in school in a team environment with input from real-world industry workers.

To prepare for a possible residency with a Tech Talent Pipeline that could lead to a PAID internship next summer.

To HAVE FUN!

---

# What You Will Do

Every day will cover a new set of topics that are important to know in today's technical marketplace.

Every day there will be 2 labs that will let you PRACTICE what you learned! Most will be as part of a team of students.
> Knowledge is of no value unless you put it into practice. 

Every Friday have a chance to ask questions of industry professionals!

During the last two weeks, you'll work with real tech workers to develop a project that will enhance your resume!

On the last day, you'll get to present your project to your peers.

---

# When Will You Will Do It

The workshops will be Monday through Friday from June 21st until August 17th

The workshops will be from 1pm to 5pm

There will be NO workshops the Friday before July 4th and the Monday after July 4th

Attendance will be taken at various points throughout the afternoon. 

---

# Topics Covered in the Workshops

1. Basic Coding Concepts
2. Coding as Part of a Team
3. Full-stack Web-application Development
4. Responsive Design
5. APIs, The Glue Between Layers
6. The OS Terminal
7. ReactJS
8. Databases 
9. Servers

---

# Example projects

A stock tracker website that allows users to play-buy stocks and track their net value over time.

{.column}

A restaurant discovery website that allows users to enter their location and food preferences / restrictions and receive a list of restaurants that meet those criteria.

---

# Class Norms
## What are the promises we make to each other as members of this bootcamp?

1. Ask questions when you don't understand - There are no stupid questions
3. IMPORTANT! Practice, Practice - Do as much of the labs as you can during each workshop - there will be NO homework
4. Make sure you connect to the Workshops with a computer - you cannot do the labs on a phone
5. Ensure you are in a comfortable space for working and typing with both hands

---

# General Schedule

To respect everyone's time, we will always sharply begin at 1:00pm

1. The day's topics will be introduced during the first hour
2. We will then give instructions for the day's lab and you'll have an hour to complete it
3. There will be a short break
4. We will review the lab and cover how you can extend the ideas tought for the next hour
5. Another hour will be alloted for a second lab, questions and review
5. During the last half hour we will review what was learned and give you more resources for further study if you want

---

# Project Schedule

The weeks of August 2nd and August 9th will be Industry Project weeks.

Teams of students will be paired with an industry volunteer who will manage an actual work project using some of the topics covered in the workshops.

---

# Open and Honest Communication, Always

The classroom works best when everyone feels comfortable to communicate honestly at all times.

Keeping your webcams helps foster an environment where this is possible. It is also magnificent practice for non verbal communication you'll need for interviews.

At the end, the teaching staff will offer LinkedIn endorsements for students who have demonstrated excellent skills, such as with communication.

---

# Engaged Communication

**What it may look like:**

Answering a question  
Asking a relevant question  
Bringing up relevant idea  
Give non verbal feedback  
Respond in Slack or Google Classroom
"Can you go slower?"
"Can you give a different example?"
"Can you go faster?"

{.column}

**How it may happen:**

Speak up during class  
Message during class (to everyone or teaching staff)  
Slack  
Email  
Anonymous Feedback Form
[https://airtable.com/shrz8k2HQ06hnuJcu](https://airtable.com/shrz8k2HQ06hnuJcu)

---

# Pause for Questions

---

# Reversal!
## Each student come up with one question for anyone on the teaching staff. Ask it via video or chat.

Some examples of questions:
- *What's it like founding your own social good tech startup?*
- *What's your favorite project that you've ever worked on?*
- *Where did you grow up?*
- *Who is your favorite Avenger?*

---
