# TTP Full Stack Bootcamp
## Session 6: **JS Objects, Repl.it, and git / GitHub**

---

# Outline for today

- Review
- JS Objects
- JS Objects Lab
- Intro to Repl.it
- Intro to git

---

# Review

- What are arrays?
- What is the code pattern to create arrays?
- Why do we use them?
- What are functions?
- What is the code pattern to create functions?
- Why do we use them?

---

# JS Objects Intro 1/5

Imagine you are creating a video game and you want to keep track of different player variables. What are some things you would need?

---

# JS Objects Intro 2/5

```
let playerName = 'Alicia';
let playerScore = 0;
let playerColor = 'red';
let playerShape = 'triangle';
```

---

# JS Objects Intro 3/5

How would you scale this? How would you handle 2 players?

---

# JS Objects Intro 4/5
```
let player1Name = 'Alicia';
let player1Score = 0;
let player1Color = 'red';
let player1Shape = 'triangle';

let player2Name = 'Benjamin';
let player2Score = 0;
let player2Color = 'blue';
let player2Shape = 'circle';
```
---

# JS Objects Intro 5/5

Now how would you scale even further?

What if you were building a massively multiplayer game with 64 players? 1,000 players?

---

# JS Objects to the rescue!

An object is a group of related variables, functions, and other objects that is treated as a **single** variable. It is created with the following code pattern:
```
let player = {
	name: 'Alicia',
	score: 0,
	color: 'blue',
	shape: 'circle'
}
```

---

# JS Object Key Value Pairs

Notice that all sub-variables in an object follow the same pattern:

`key: value`

This is called a key-value pair and is used to access any data inside of an object.

---

# Accessing JS Object data 1/2

To access any variable inside of an object, use variable object's name, followed by the `.` operator, followed the `key` name.

`OBJECT_NAME.KEY_NAME`

---

# Accessing JS Object data 2/2

What do you think the following lines of code will produce?
```
console.log(player.name);
console.log(player.score);
console.log(player.color);
console.log(player.shape);
```

---

# Mutating JS Object data

Similarly to accessing an object's variable, you can also mutate (modify, change, edit) it with the same pattern:

```
console.log(player.score);
player.score = player.score + 100;
console.log(player.score);
player.score = player.score * 3;
console.log(player.score);
```

---

# One more note! 1/2

Remember the original definition: an object is a group of related **variables**, **functions**, and other **objects**. So you may have something like this:

---

# One more note! 2/2

```
let game = {
	players: [player1, player2, player3],
	setup: function(){ /* code */ },
	start: function(){ /* code */ },
	state: {
		running: false
	}
}
game.setup();
game.start();
```

---

# Why is it important?

Objects are a part of a larger computer science concept, called *Object Oriented Programming* (OOP). It makes a lot of complicated tasks easier by centering around the concepts of *objects*.

It is not particular to JS; OOP exists in many languages.

---

# Intro to Repl.it

## Before we continue, let's introduce a new coding environment

---

# JS Objects Lab Part A

---

# JS Objects Lab Part A Review

---

# Attendance

---

# Break

---

# Working inside a JS Object 1/2

What if you had the following object:
```
const person = {
	name: 'Jon',
	greet: function(){}
}
```
How would the object's greet function be able to print it's name?

---

# Working inside a JS Object 2/2

There is a **this** *keyword* that represents the object itself whenever you are in a function and need to access other properties. You can use **this** just like any other object variable.

```
const person = {
	name: 'Jon',
	greet: function(){
		console.log(this.name);
	}
}
```

---

# JS Objects Lab Part B

---

# JS Objects Lab Part B Review

---

# git

---

# What is it?

**a version control system**  
git creates an exhaustive edit history for each file in your project, allowing you to retain different versions, revert to older versions, and much more.

**a code collaboration system**  
git creates local copies of the project on your machine and intelligently sends your changes to a master repository or storehouse of code. you can also automagically receive code changes from other teammates in a (usually) frictionless way.

---

# Why should I learn it?

- Ubiquitous in the world, from startup to enterprise level
- Github often acts as your portfolio
- Easiest way to collaborate on large projects
- Can rollback and track changes

---

# Review
